mcp/docs/skills/refinement/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: coot-refinement
description: "Best practices for protein structure refinement and validation in Coot. Use when performing (1) Residue refinement operations, (2) Model building and fitting, (3) Rotamer fixing, (4) Scripted/automated refinement workflows, (5) Validation and correlation checking."
---

# Coot Refinement Best Practices

This skill provides guidance for effective and safe structure refinement in Coot, based on lessons learned from crashes and workflow optimization.

## Critical Configuration

### Set Immediate Replacement Mode for Scripting

**ALWAYS** call this before any refinement operations in scripts:

```python
coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)
```

**Why:** Enables synchronous operation where refinement directly updates coordinates. Without this:
- Refinement happens asynchronously in background threads
- Need to call `coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement()` before using refinement functions (just once is enough)
  which should remove the risk of threading conflicts and crashes, race conditions between refinement and rendering.

**When to use:** Any time you're scripting refinement operations (auto_fit_best_rotamer, refine_zone, etc.)

## Safe Refinement Workflow

### Single Residue Refinement

```python
# 1. Enable immediate replacement
coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)

# 2. Fix rotamer
coot.auto_fit_best_rotamer(
    imol,
    chain_id,
    res_no,
    ins_code,
    alt_loc,
    imol_map,
    clash_flag,
    probability_lim
)

# 3. Refine in context (sphere refinement)
coot.refine_residues_py(
    imol,
    [['A', 43, ""], ['A', 44, '']]
)

# No need for accept_moving_atoms_py() with immediate replacement!
```

### Zone Refinement

```python
# Enable immediate replacement
coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)

# Refine zone
coot.refine_zone(
    imol,
    chain_id,
    start_resno,
    end_resno,
    ""  # alt conf
)
```

## Validation and Correlation

### Check Residue Quality

```python
# Get density correlation for specific residue
correlation = coot.density_correlation_analysis_scm(imol, chain_id, resno, ins_code)
# Returns dict with 'all-atom' and 'side-chain' correlations

# Get worst residues
worst = coot.get_n_residues_with_worst_density_fit(imol, n_residues)
# Returns list of [chain_id, resno, inscode, correlation]
```

### Correlation Targets

Good fit:
- All-atom correlation: > 0.8
- Side-chain correlation: > 0.8

Poor fit (needs attention):
- All-atom correlation: < 0.5
- Side-chain correlation: < 0.5

## Common Crash Scenarios to Avoid

### Threading/Rendering Conflicts

**Problem:** Rapid-fire refinement operations while graphics are rendering can cause memory corruption in GTK rendering pipeline.

**Symptoms:**
```
nanov2_guard_corruption_detected
gdk_gl_texture_new_from_builder
gtk_gl_area_snapshot
```

**Solution:** Use `set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)` for synchronous operation

### Asynchronous Refinement Without Accept

**Problem:** Refinement starts but coordinates aren't committed before next operation.

**Solution:** Either:
1. Use immediate replacement mode (recommended)
2. OR call `accept_moving_atoms_py()` after each refinement

## Multi-Line Code Limitation

Coot only returns values if code is a single line:

**Doesn't work:**
```python
x = 5
y = 10
x + y  # Won't return value
```

**Workaround:**
```python
# Call 1: Define function
def calculate():
    x = 5
    y = 10
    return x + y

# Call 2: Execute function
calculate()  # Returns 15
```

## Systematic Residue Fixing Workflow

```python
# 1. Enable immediate replacement
coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)

# 2. Find worst residues
worst = coot.get_n_residues_with_worst_density_fit(0, 10)

# 3. For each poor residue:
for residue in worst:
    chain_id, resno, inscode, corr = residue
    
    # Build CID
    cid = f"//{chain_id}/{resno}"
    
    # Try rotamer fix
    coot.auto_fit_best_rotamer(cid, "", 0, 1, 1, 0.1)
    
    # Refine in context
    coot.refine_residues_using_atom_cid(0, cid, "SPHERE", 4000)
    
    # Check improvement
    new_corr = coot.density_correlation_analysis_scm(0, chain_id, resno, inscode)
    print(f"{cid}: {corr:.3f} → {new_corr['all-atom']:.3f}")
```

## Common Functions

### Refinement
- `auto_fit_best_rotamer(cid, alt_conf, imol, imol_map, use_rama, rama_weight)` - Fix rotamer
- `refine_residues_using_atom_cid(imol, cid, mode, radius)` - Sphere/zone refinement
- `refine_zone(imol, chain, start, end, alt_conf)` - Refine residue range
- `set_refinement_immediate_replacement(istate)` - Enable synchronous refinement

### Validation
- `density_correlation_analysis_scm(imol, chain, resno, inscode)` - Get correlation
- `get_n_residues_with_worst_density_fit(imol, n)` - Find problem residues

### Other
- `pepflip(imol, atom_cid, alt_conf)` - Flip peptide

Commit message:

Update the refinement SKILL.md
clarify the usage of accept_moving_atom_py().

mcp/docs/skills/refinement/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: coot-refinement
description: "Best practices for protein structure refinement and validation in Coot. Use when performing (1) Residue refinement operations, (2) Model building and fitting, (3) Rotamer fixing, (4) Scripted/automated refinement workflows, (5) Validation and correlation checking."
---

# Coot Refinement Best Practices

This skill provides guidance for effective and safe structure refinement in Coot, based on lessons learned from crashes and workflow optimization.

## Critical Configuration

### Set Immediate Replacement Mode for Scripting

**ALWAYS** call this before any refinement operations in scripts:

```python
coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)
```

**Why:** Enables synchronous operation where refinement directly updates coordinates. Without this:
- Refinement happens asynchronously in background threads
- Need to call `coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement()` before using refinement functions (just once is enough)
  which should remove the risk of threading conflicts and crashes, race conditions between refinement and rendering.

**When to use:** Any time you're scripting refinement operations (auto_fit_best_rotamer, refine_zone, etc.)

## Safe Refinement Workflow

### Single Residue Refinement

```python
# 1. Enable immediate replacement
coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)

# 2. Fix rotamer
coot.auto_fit_best_rotamer(
    imol,
    chain_id,
    res_no,
    ins_code,
    alt_loc,
    imol_map,
    clash_flag,
    probability_lim
)

# 3. Refine in context (sphere refinement)
coot.refine_residues_py(
    imol,
    [['A', 43, ""], ['A', 44, '']]
)

# Ideally there is no need for coot.accept_moving_atoms_py() with immediate replacement
# but it might be needed if there is a bug. It would be useful for the user to be
# alerted if you expected the atoms to have moved after a refinement (and thus model-based
# statistics or density fit or correlation to have changed), but (surprisingly) they did not.
# In such caess, try to use coot.accept_moving_atoms_py() and that will force a sync/update
# of the atoms under refinement.

```

### Zone Refinement

```python
# Enable immediate replacement
coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)

# Refine zone
coot.refine_zone(
    imol,
    chain_id,
    start_resno,
    end_resno,
    ""  # alt conf
)
```

## Validation and Correlation

### Check Residue Quality

```python
# Get density correlation for specific residue
correlation = coot.density_correlation_analysis_scm(imol, chain_id, resno, ins_code)
# Returns dict with 'all-atom' and 'side-chain' correlations

# Get worst residues
worst = coot.get_n_residues_with_worst_density_fit(imol, n_residues)
# Returns list of [chain_id, resno, inscode, correlation]
```

### Correlation Targets

Good fit:
- All-atom correlation: > 0.8
- Side-chain correlation: > 0.8

Poor fit (needs attention):
- All-atom correlation: < 0.5
- Side-chain correlation: < 0.5

## Common Crash Scenarios to Avoid

### Threading/Rendering Conflicts

**Problem:** Rapid-fire refinement operations while graphics are rendering can cause memory corruption in GTK rendering pipeline.

**Symptoms:**
```
nanov2_guard_corruption_detected
gdk_gl_texture_new_from_builder
gtk_gl_area_snapshot
```

**Solution:** Use `set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)` for synchronous operation

### Asynchronous Refinement Without Accept

**Problem:** Refinement starts but coordinates aren't committed before next operation.

**Solution:** Either:
1. Use immediate replacement mode (recommended)
2. OR call `accept_moving_atoms_py()` after each refinement

## Multi-Line Code Limitation

Coot only returns values if code is a single line:

**Doesn't work:**
```python
x = 5
y = 10
x + y  # Won't return value
```

**Workaround:**
```python
# Call 1: Define function
def calculate():
    x = 5
    y = 10
    return x + y

# Call 2: Execute function
calculate()  # Returns 15
```

## Systematic Residue Fixing Workflow

```python
# 1. Enable immediate replacement
coot.set_refinement_immediate_replacement(1)

# 2. Find worst residues
worst = coot.get_n_residues_with_worst_density_fit(0, 10)

# 3. For each poor residue:
for residue in worst:
    chain_id, resno, inscode, corr = residue
    
    # Build CID
    cid = f"//{chain_id}/{resno}"
    
    # Try rotamer fix
    coot.auto_fit_best_rotamer(cid, "", 0, 1, 1, 0.1)
    
    # Refine in context
    coot.refine_residues_using_atom_cid(0, cid, "SPHERE", 4000)
    
    # Check improvement
    new_corr = coot.density_correlation_analysis_scm(0, chain_id, resno, inscode)
    print(f"{cid}: {corr:.3f} → {new_corr['all-atom']:.3f}")
```

## Common Functions

### Refinement
- `auto_fit_best_rotamer(cid, alt_conf, imol, imol_map, use_rama, rama_weight)` - Fix rotamer
- `refine_residues_using_atom_cid(imol, cid, mode, radius)` - Sphere/zone refinement
- `refine_zone(imol, chain, start, end, alt_conf)` - Refine residue range
- `set_refinement_immediate_replacement(istate)` - Enable synchronous refinement

### Validation
- `density_correlation_analysis_scm(imol, chain, resno, inscode)` - Get correlation
- `get_n_residues_with_worst_density_fit(imol, n)` - Find problem residues

### Other
- `pepflip(imol, atom_cid, alt_conf)` - Flip peptide
